Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today, I’m going to explain an American
sci-fi thriller film called “Time lapse.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The movie starts as we see a painter named
Finn trying to paint a canvas in his apartment.
He lives in the same apartment with his girlfriend,
Callie, and his best friend, Jasper.
Finn is also the manager of that apartment
complex, while Jasper is a gambling addict.
That day, Finn meets the apartment’s security
guard, Big Joe, who he invites to a house
party on the next day.
Soon after, their landlord calls to inform
them that one of the tenants called Mr B,
is two months late to pay his rent.
So, Callie goes to check on Mr B. She knocks
on the door, but no one answers.
There is also a pile of newspapers in front
of the door...suggesting that he has not come
out for a long time.
Callie uses spare keys to go inside.
Cut to Finn’s room.
Finn and Jasper are talking when Callie barges
in and takes them to Mr B’s apartment.
The three of them go in to see a wall full
of polaroid pictures of their living room.
Mr B had been taking pictures of them through
their living room window.
Jasper thinks he was spying on them, but there
are empty pictures of the room as well.
Moreover, some of the pictures from the collection
are missing.
Finn turns around and sees a huge machine
in the same room.
It looks like a massive camera pointed directly
at their living room window.
A polaroid picture hands from it.
We see that the coat rack from their living
room is knocked over in it.
They figure that the pictures on the walls
are taken from this camera.
Later, they are in their apartment talking,
when Callie suddenly knocks over the rack.
The group matches the picture with the look
of their living room and it is a perfect match.
The group realizes that the camera takes photos
apparently 24 hours in the future.
Suddenly, the camera takes a picture on its
own.
They look at it to see it is the picture of
the next day when they were going to have
a house party.
The three of them are in shock.
Jasper still doesn’t believe that the camera
takes pictures of the future.
Callie finds Mr B’s journal which says that
he has seen his death through the camera.
So, he planned to disobey the “cardinal
rule of time and causality.”
Finn examines the pictures and finds that
all of them are taken at exactly 8 pm.
However, the wall has some pictures taken
during the day time.
Strangely, some of the pictures from the wall
are missing.
Then, the group goes to Mr B’s storage unit
and finds his dead body there.
His face looks burnt and rotten but his clothes
are fine.
Jasper thinks that he died because he disobeyed
the cardinal rule.
They are now back in their apartment, when
Jasper suggests they use the camera to gamble.
Finn is doubtful of the idea, but Callie supports
it.
That night, they have a house party.
Jasper and Callie dance with the guests, while
Finn goes to Mr B’s place, and takes a picture
exactly at 8 pm.
He compares the polaroid picture with the
picture he took, and it is exactly the same.
Just then, a picture comes out from the camera.
In the picture, he sees the three of them
posing for the camera; a paper with the gambling
results is pasted on the window.
The following day, Finn is still doubtful
of the idea but Callie suggests that if they
do not do what the picture says, they would
be breaking the cardinal rule; they can end
up like Mr B as well.
So, Callie starts watering Mr B’s plants
and taking his newspaper to make it seem like
he is still in his house.
Finn looks at the canvas in the picture and
paints without having to brainstorm any ideas.
Meanwhile, Jasper tapes the gambling results
to the window every day.
Several days go by and the group earns a lot
of money through it, as they cover up Mr B’s disappearance
However, a week later, they receive a picture
in which Jasper and Callie are kissing in
the background, while Finn paints in front
of them.
Finn is disturbed by the picture but they
have to do what it says to follow the cardinal rule
So, that night, Jasper and Callie kiss, as
Finn paints.
But the actual kiss goes on too long...causing
Finn to get angry and jealous.
He goes to Mr B’s place; and the new picture
is already there.
In it, they see Jasper’s gambling bookie,
Ivan, sitting in their living room.
The group is shocked because Ivan is a violent
criminal.
The following day, Jasper is very nervous.
He stays on the couch...waiting for Ivan,
as Callie and Finn leave.
Soon after, Ivan comes to visit.
He is suspicious of Jasper’s recent wins,
so he threatens Jasper to tell him his secret.
Jasper tells him that Ivan can ride on his
gambles and leave them alone.
Just then, Callie and Finn arrive with the
next day’s picture.
In the picture, Callie is nude...posing for
Finn’s painting, as Jasper’s silhouette
spies on them through the mirror.
Ivan gets a look at the picture too; and then
he leaves.
Cut to the next day, Finn and Callie get ready
to paint.
Callie poses as Finn paints her; but exactly
at eight, they see Ivan outside the window.
Turns out that the silhouette from the picture
was actually Ivan.
He and his goon, Marcus, threaten the group
and find out about the camera.
They make a deal, now the group has to pose
for the photos with gambling results every
day for Ivan to make bets on.
He wants to profit off the camera himself.
The group does as Ivan says.
They provide him with the gambling results
for a few days.
When suddenly, one day, Finn notices that
the next day’s picture has a weird painting on it
This photo shows a hastily made skull and
crossbones on the canvas.
It is not Finn’s usual style of painting.
The group thinks that the future Finn is trying
to warn them of something; so Jasper is very
nervous the next day, he hides several weapons
around the living room in case someone attacks them
He practices stabbing with his knife.
That evening, Finn runs into Big Joe at the
gate, who has just gotten a job as a police officer.
But as they talk, Marcus spies on them from
his car.
Joe gives Finn his card, he is a police officer
now.
When Finn comes back to the room, he tells
Jasper what has happened.
Some time later, Ivan and Marcus arrive there
suspicious of Big Joe.
They find the card of the police, and question
the trio about their connection with Joe.
They threaten to kill all three of them.
But Jasper lies to him that he has seen tomorrow’s
picture which has Ivan being killed by Marcus in it
This makes Ivan suspicious of Marcus, so he
goes to Mr.B’s apartment to look at the
picture and confirm it himself.
Meanwhile, Jasper stabs Marcus as he had practiced.
When Ivan comes back, he sees Marcus dead;
and Jasper attacks him with a bat and kills
him as well.
The group hides the bodies in Mr. B’s storage
unit.
They see that the new picture is actually
a picture of Jasper sitting on the couch with
a pile of money in front of him.
They take all of Ivan’s gambling money,
so now they have millions of dollars.
That night, Finn suggests that they split
the money and get out of the country.
But the other two are against the idea.
At night, someone knocks on their door.
It is Mr B’s friend and colleague, Dr. Heidecker,
who is looking for Mr B; however, Jasper can't
keep their stories straight about Mr B, so
Dr. Heidecker levels a gun at them and forces
them to confess.
Mr B had written her a letter before his death.
In the letter, he had told her about the camera
being successful and about his death.
He had also sent her a picture.
It is a picture of the group’s living room
with Mr B’s hat in the background and blood
splattered on the windows.
He had seen the picture and thought that he
was about to die, so he locked himself in
his storage unit.
They take her to the unit, and Heidecker realizes
that Mr B did not die because of the rule
of cardinals.
He reached for the shelves in the cabinet
and died because a chemical poured over him.
It was just an accident.
Heidecker also tells them that the picture
is of tomorrow.
Finn and Jasper are surprised to know that
the camera can click pictures more than twenty-four
hours in advance, but currently it is set
to 24 hours in the future, and the timer is
always set at 8 pm.
Knowing that Heidecker is of no real use to
them, Jasper kills her with Ivan’s gun.
They hide her body there and come back to
their place.
Finn blames Jasper for killing an innocent
woman, so he has now decided to move out of their place
At 8 pm, Jasper takes the picture with the
pile of money, while Callie goes to look at
the picture for tomorrow.
Finn comes out with his suitcase packed in
order to leave the place and flee.
He goes to Mr B’s place, where Jasper and
Callie are sitting in distress.
The next day’s picture is a picture of Callie
and Jasper having sex as Finn sleeps on the
couch behind.
Finn is furious to see this.
Callie runs away from there.
Then, Finn shows Jasper an engagement ring
he had bought for Callie a long time ago.
As Finn talks, Jasper hits him on the head...
making him go unconscious.
He drags Finn to the storage unit and ties
him there.
Jasper wants to do what the camera says...making
sure the photo happens, no matter what.
Jasper then goes to the apartment and wait
until tomorrow at 8 pm.
The next morning, Finn wakes up at the storage
unit; he burns the ropes and frees himself.
He takes the keys from Mr B’s pockets and
escapes from the storage unit.
He then takes a bucket of water and goes to
Mr B’s place.
He calls Jasper from there and threatens to
pour water on the camera.
Finn wants Jasper to let Callie and him go
away and move to some other place.
Jasper calls Callie outside and points his
gun at her.
He tries to threaten Finn to kill Callie,
but it doesn’t work.
Fin then asks Callie to look into Jasper’s
pocket where she finds the ring.
She is delighted.
Then she takes Jasper’s gun and opens the
door for Finn.
All three of them are in the apartment now.
Finn tells Callie to pack her clothes.
They plan to flee as soon as possible.
But as Callie goes to do that, Jasper attacks
Finn.
He is almost about to kill Finn when suddenly,
Callie appears from behind and kills Jasper
to save Finn.
Then, Callie goes into the kitchen to get
Finn ice for his injuries.
But when Finn goes in to check, he sees her
going through a different drawer.
Callie makes an excuse, but Finn senses something
wrong.
She takes him to their room and leaves him
there with the ice.
However, Finn comes to check and he sees Callie
posing for the camera.
She has two notes pasted on the window.
Finn is surprised to see the camera take a
picture because it is 8 am.
This whole time, he thought the camera only
takes pictures at 8 pm.
He asks Callie about it; and this is where
everything is revealed.
Before the events in the film, Finn and Callie
had been having problems with their relationship.
Finn had been acting distant and Callie was
not feeling the love, so Callie slept with Jasper
What they didn’t realize is that Mr B’s
time-camera had been taking pictures of their
naughtiness the whole time.
When Callie went into Mr B’s apartment for
the first time, she saw the machine and the photos
She also saw the pictures that had been taken
during her naughtiness with Jasper, this includes
the photo of them having sex.
She wanted to hide this, so she removed those
pictures.
She also figured that the machine was set
to take pictures at 8 AM and 8 PM.
But Callie kept the 8 AM part a secret, because
she saw a picture of herself from the following
morning standing with notes that read – “Knock
coat stand over.
Hide last week’s daytime photos”, so she
decided to hide that 8AM information to pass
instructions secretly to herself.
These instructions are to help her get Finn
back close to her.
All this time when she went to water the plants
at Mr B's place in the morning, she always
took the 8 am picture with a message from
her future self.
One morning, Callie got the 8 AM picture that
read “Kiss Jasper for too long”.
So when 8PM arrived, she followed that instruction
and stretched out the kiss.
She was rewarded with Finn getting jealous.
All she wants is that for him to fight for
their relationship
The day before, Callie had already received
a message at 8 AM asking herself to swap out
that day’s picture with the sex photo, so
she followed the instructions.
The purpose was to make Finn jealous and fight
for their relationship; and it turned out
to be successful.
Today, he fought for their relationship harder
than she has ever seen.
After Callie’s truth is revealed, Finn rejects
her.
He decides that all of this is wrong and he
needs to destroy the machine, but Callie shoots
him first and kills him.
This creates the blood splatter on the window;
just like in Heidecker's photo.
She wants to put up a message for 8 pm saying
“Don’t get caught at the window”.
She thinks that if she sends herself a message
in the window when the photo is taken, it
will send a message to herself 24 hours ago,
preventing these events from happening.
Just as she’s waiting for the camera to
go out, Joe, the cop, shows up and asks her
to open the door.
He finds people dead in the hall so he takes
Callie away.
Callie leaves peacefully...confident that
all this will be over once her past self sees
the message she has taped, and the timeline
will reset.
Joe leads Callie out of the house to arrest
her... but just then, the note she left falls
off the window.
Callie tries to run back to stick the message
back on, but Joe drags her away.
The camera takes its 8 pm snap and before
the image develops, it cuts to black and the
movie ends.
Callie cannot changed the event because this
is Predestination, the causal loop has already
occurred, it can’t be changed.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.